---
layout:     post
title:      AS91264 Analysis from PPDAC Cycle
date:       10.06.2025
categories: Statistics
---

Licensed under the CC BY-ND 4.0 License.
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/legalcode.txt

**All** of these features *must be linked to the context* to get a MRT/EXC, including what the feature from your sample **means** (often comes from common sense), and if they **make sense** with regards to the context, and **extended thinking** (which also often comes from common sense).

- **Symmetry** - whether the shape is symmetrical or not (center is at median). Could be found by looking at the whisker.\
	-> From this, the skew (right/left skewed) in terms of shape can be found.
- **Modelity** - whether the group has 1, 2, or more modes (spikes) in the graph. Recommended that the group can be viewed distinctively.
- **Center** (median) - where the median of the group is. Justify their median in numeric values, then differences between each group numerically.
- **Range** - the interquartile range representing the middle 50% of the graph, or the whole spread (100% of graph) including the whisker section of the graph.\
	-> Show calculations for IQR: $UQ-LQ$.
- **Cluster** - show the cluster from the graph. Similar to modelity, since clusters have a mode most of the time.
- **Outliers** (if any) - identify an obvious outlier (eg: "height is 20 meters"), and justify whether if you should keep them or not.

NOTE: Confidence Intervals ("C-I") & (sampling) variability go in the conclusion.

wndud's sample on Cluster & Outlier: \
*(context being age of survivors from the Titanic Ship)*

```
For the non-survivors, there is no obvious outlier or cluster. 
However, for the bottom sample, even though there is no outlier, 
there is a cluster among the 0~10 group (age), and the rest. 
Again, this may be because we always try to save the young people 
first when it comes to difficult situations.
```

